it was not the first time people have
tried to physically reconstruct
creatures from the age of dinosaurs but
there are lessons to be learnt from
those who have tried before this is
Crystal Palace Park in London the
statues are a solid reminder of the
mistakes of the past back in the middle
of the last century there was hardly
anything to go on a few bones a few
teeth and on the basis of that they
built these complete animals so it's not
really surprising they made a few
mistakes the heads the wrong shape
we know that nowadays in particular
right on the tip of the snout is this
great big horn which is very similar to
that of a rhinoceros it's completely
wrong we now know that that faun is
actually a thumb spike which was used to
defend the animal over time ideas change
and in the case of these wonderful
models more dinosaur skeletons were
found much more complete and they
allowed ideas about the shape and form
of dinosaurs to evolve by the 1920s
dinosaurs looked a bit more like this at
the time such pictures were an amazing
achievement but the animals are still
very inaccurate the brontosaurus should
not have such a bendy neck the t-rex
should not be standing up straight in
the intervening years a lot more
skeletons have been discovered and as a
result museum pieces have become
increasingly accurate making dinosaurs
true to how they were meant basing them
on up to date skeletons it was then the
job of sculptors to build the whole
animal from the bones up I think the
basic shape of many of the dinosaurs
that we now see today as reconstructions
is pretty much correct I would say that
science has progressed enough to get the
basic shape as accurate as we would hope
of course far more than the basic shape
was needed the creatures would have to
have skin scales color eyes and
everything
a pile of bones revealed that well bones
give you a starting point if you take
the skull of Iguanodon here in the case
of this animal the bones give you more
clues about the way in which you might
flesh out this framework if you look at
the back of the jaw you have this very
distinctive prong here there are surface
markings on that which show where the
muscles attached and the shows have the
jaw works so you can flesh in part of
the skull there at the front end of the
jaw you've got this area with no teeth
quite a rough surface with lots of
little openings on the side for blood
vessels and this shows exactly where
there was a horny beak growing for
feeding in this animal if you're really
lucky you can find the skin impression
of a dinosaur this is the skin of
Iguanodon notice the fine scaly pattern
just like that of a lizard it shows that
the skin itself is quite flexible there
was one thing though that could only be
guessed at color is something we're very
unlikely to find in the majority of
dinosaurs so far we don't know of any
color pigments preserved in in dinosaur
skeletons it's not unreasonable to
suspect that many dinosaurs were
colorful in many ways and use color in
various aspects of their behavior so
there's no harm in introducing color to
reconstructions if you add this to the
information from the other fleshy
structures and what you can begin to do
is put together a picture of the
dinosaur as it might have appeared in
life